# **Cybersecurity Glossary**

**Active Directory** - A Microsoft-developed database and service that manages users, devices, and network resources within an organization. \
**CSP** - Content-Security-Policy - CSP header is an additional security layer that can help mitigate against common attacks like Cross-Site Scripting (XSS). A CSP provides a way for administrators to say what domains or sources are considered safe and provides a layer of mitigation to such attacks. \
**CTI** - Cyber threat intelligence - Evidence-based knowledge about adversaries, including their indicators, tactics, motivations, and actionable advice against them. \
**CVE** - Common vulnerabilities and exposures - Term given to a publicly disclosed vulnerability. \
**DLP** - Data loss prevention - Software detects potential data breaches/data ex-filtration transmissions and prevents them by monitoring, detecting and blocking sensitive data while in use (endpoint actions), in motion (network traffic), and at rest (data storage). \
**DC** - Domain controller - A server that manages security authentication requests in a Windows Server network. It stores user account information and controls access to resources on the network. It is a critical component for managing and securing a network infrastructure. \
**EDR** - Endpoint detection & response - A series of tools that monitor devices for activity that could indicate a threat. \
**ELK** - ElasticSearch, LogStash, Kabana - Three open-source tools that are commonly used together to collect, store, analyse, and visualise data. \
**Firewall** - A security tool, hardware or software that is used to filter network traffic by stopping unauthorized incoming and outgoing traffic. \
**FTP** - File transfer protocol - A protocol designed to help the efficient transfer of files between different and even non-compatible systems. It supports two modes for file transfer: binary and ASCII (text). \
**GoBuster** - A free and open-source directory and file enumeration tool. Penetration testers and security professionals use it to find hidden directories and files on web servers. \
**HTTP** - Hypertext transfer protocol - The protocol that specifies how a web browser and a web server communicate. Your web browser requests content from the web server using the HTTP protocol. \
**IAM** - Identity access management - A framework/process for controlling and securing digital identities and user access in organisations. \
**IDOR** - Indirect direct object reference - A type of access control vulnerability that arises when an application uses user-supplied input to access objects directly. The term IDOR was popularized by its appearance in the OWASP 2007 Top Ten. \
**IDS/IPS** -  Intrusion detection and prevention - Inspects the traffic and creates alerts (IDS) or resets the connection (IPS) when detecting an anomaly/threat. \
**IM** - Incident management - Covers the process aspect of dealing with an incident. This is the portion that is responsible for answering the primary question: *How do we respond to what happened?* \
**IPS** Intrusion prevention system - A device or application that detects and stops intrusions attempts proactively. They are usually deployed in front of the protected asset and block any potential threat from reaching their target. \
**IMAP** - Internet mail access protocol - A protocol for receiving email. Protocols standardize technical processes so computers and servers can connect with each other regardless of whether or not they use the same hardware or software. \
**IoT** - Internet of things - Refers to the network of physical objects, or "things", that are embedded with sensors and software which allow them to collect and exchange data over the Internet. These objects can include various devices, from everyday household items like thermostats, refrigerators, and lightbulbs, to industrial equipment, vehicles, and more. \
**IR** - Incident response - Covers the technical aspect of dealing with an incident. This is the portion that is responsible for answering the primary question: *What happened?* \
**Keberos** - A computer network authentication protocol that operates based on tickets, allowing nodes to securely prove their identity to one another over a non-secure network. It primarily aims at a client-server model and provides mutual authentication, where the user and the server verify each other's identity. The Kerberos protocol messages are protected against eavesdropping and replay attacks, and it builds on symmetric-key cryptography, requiring a trusted third party. \
**MD5** - Message Digest 5 - A cryptographic hash function that takes any input and produces a 128-bit hexadecimal number. The output of an MD5 hash function is called a digest. MD5 digests are often used to verify the integrity of files or data; however, MD5 is no longer considered secure and should not be used for sensitive applications. \
**MIME** - Multipurpose internet mail extensions - An Internet standard that extends the format of email messages to support text in character sets other than ASCII, as well as attachments of audio, video, images, and application programs. \
**MITRE ATT&CK** - MITRE Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge (ATT&CK). \
**NAC** - Network access control - Controls the devices' suitability before access to the network. Designed to verify device specifications and conditions are compliant with the predetermined profile before connecting to the network. \
**NTLM** - Windows New Technology LAN Manager - A suite of security protocols offered by Microsoft to authenticate users’ identity and protect the integrity and confidentiality of their activity. \
**OSI Model** - Open systems interconnection model - Describes how communications should occur in a computer network. In other words, the OSI model defines a framework for computer network communications. \
**OWASP** - Open Web Application Security Project - A nonprofit foundation focused on understanding web technologies and exploitations and provides resources and tools designed to improve the security of software applications. \
**PID** - Process ID - Stands for Process ID. It is a unique identifier assigned to each running process in a system. PIDs are usually assigned in sequential order as processes are created, but can be recycled once a process has completed and terminated. \
**SIEM** - Security information and endpoint management - A series of tools that monitor devices for activity that could indicate a threat. \
**SMTP** - Simple mail transfer protocol - A protocol used to send the email to an SMTP server, more specifically to a Mail Submission Agent (MSA) or a Mail Transfer Agent (MTA). \
**SOAR** - Security orchestration, automation and response - A solution that helps organisations to streamline and automate their security operations, including incident management, threat intelligence, and vulnerability response. \
**SOC** - Security operations centre - A team of IT security professionals tasked with monitoring, preventing , detecting , investigating, and responding to threats within a company’s network and systems. \
**Splunk** - A platform for collecting, storing, and analysing machine data. It provides various tools for analysing data, including search, correlation, and visualisation. It is a powerful tool that organisations of all sizes can use to improve their IT operations and security posture. \
**SSH** - Secure shell - A cryptographic network protocol used in secure communication between devices. SSH encrypts data using cryptographic algorithms, such as Advanced Encryption System (AES) and is often used when logging in remotely to a computer or server. \
**SSRF** - Server side request forgery - A web vulnerability where an attacker manipulates a vulnerable application to make requests to internal or external resources on behalf of the server. This can lead to data exposure, unauthorised access to internal systems, or service disruptions. \
**Sysmon** - System monitor -  A Windows system service and device driver developed by Microsoft that is designed to monitor and log various events happening within a Windows system. \
**TCP** - Transfer  control protocol - a connection-oriented protocol requiring a TCP three-way-handshake to establish a connection. TCP provides reliable data transfer, flow control and congestion control. Higher-level protocols such as HTTP, POP3, IMAP and SMTP use TCP. \
**TGT** - Ticket granting ticket - In Kerberos, a Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) serves as a user's proof of authentication and allows a user to request service tickets from the KDC, which can then be used to connect to services across the network. \
**TTL** - Time to live - The amount of time or “hops” that a packet is set to exist inside a network before being discarded by a router. TTL is also used in other contexts including CDN caching and DNS caching. \
**UDP** - User datagram protocol - A connectionless protocol; UDP does not require a connection to be established. UDP is suitable for protocols that rely on fast queries, such as DNS, and for protocols that prioritise real-time communications, such as audio/video conferencing and broadcast. \
**XSS** - Cross-Site Scripting - A type of security vulnerability typically found in web applications. It allows attackers to inject malicious scripts into web pages viewed by other users. These scripts can then steal sensitive information, like user's cookies, session tokens, or other sensitive data. \
**XXE** - XML external entity injection - A web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with an application's processing of XML data. It often allows an attacker to view files on the application server filesystem, and to interact with any back-end or external systems that the application itself can access. \
**VPN** - Virtual private network - A way to create a secure "tunnel" between two networks. For example, you use a VPN on a site to access the private network on which the machines operate. VPNs are also commonly used for an employee to log into their workplace when they are not on site (such as working from home or travelling for business matters). VPNs are also used where networks (such as coffee shops) do not provide encryption, and are a great way of preventing others from reading your network traffic. \
**Wazuh** - A free and open-source security platform that provides threat detection, integrity monitoring, incident response, and compliance capabilities. Wazuh can collect data from various sources, including logs, events, network traffic, and cloud metadata. It can automate response actions, such as blocking malicious traffic or isolating infected hosts.